READING PASSAGE 1
Questions 1-8
Complete the notes below.

Choose NO MORE THAN TWO WORDS from the passage for each answer.

Write your answers in boxes 1-8 on your answer sheet.

Stonehenge
Construction
Stage 1:

●   the ditch and henge were dug, possibly using tools made from 1

●   2
 may have been arranged in deep pits inside the circle

Stage 2:

●   bluestones from the Preseli Hills were placed in standing position

●   theories about the transportation of the bluestones:

        –   archaeological:

               o   builders used 3
 to make sledges and rollers

               o   4
 pulled them on giant baskets

        –   geological:

               o   they were brought from Wales by 5

Stage 3:

●   sandstone slabs were arranged into an outer crescent or ring

Builders
●   a theory arose in the 17th century that its builders were Celtic 6

Purpose
●   many experts agree it has been used as a 7
 site

●   in the 1960s, it was suggested that it worked as a kind of 8

Questions 9-13
Do the following statements agree with the information given in Reading Passage 1?
In boxes 9-13 on your answer sheet, write
TRUE               if the statement agrees with the information
FALSE              if the statement contradicts the information
NOT GIVEN     if there is no information on this
9 During the third phase of construction, sandstone slabs were placed in both the outer areas and the middle of the Stonehenge site.


 TRUE  FALSE  NG
10 There is scientific proof that the bluestones stood in the same spot until approximately 1600 BCE.

 TRUE  FALSE  NG
11 John Aubrey’s claim about Stonehenge was supported by 20th-century findings.

 TRUE  FALSE  NG
12 Objects discovered at Stonehenge seem to indicate that it was constructed by a number of different groups of people.

 TRUE  FALSE  NG
13 Criticism of Gerald Hawkins’ theory about Stonehenge has come mainly from other astronomers.

 TRUE  FALSE  NG
READING PASSAGE 2
Questions 14-19
Choose the correct letter, A, B, C or D.

Write the correct letter in boxes 14-19 on your answer sheet.

14 What point does the writer make about AI in the first paragraph?


 A   It is difficult to predict how quickly AI will progress.
 B   Much can be learned about the use of AI in chess machines.
 C   The future is unlikely to see limitations on the capabilities of AI.
 D   Experts disagree on which specialised tasks AI will be able to perform.
15 What is the writer doing in the second paragraph?

 A explaining why machines will be able to outperform humans
 B describing the characteristics that humans and machines share
 C giving information about the development of machine intelligence
 D indicating which aspects of humans are the most advanced
16 Why does the writer mention the story of King Midas?

 A to compare different visions of progress
 B to illustrate that poorly defined objectives can go wrong
 C to emphasise the need for cooperation
 D to point out the financial advantages of a course of action
17 What challenge does the writer refer to in the fourth paragraph?

 A encouraging humans to behave in a more principled way
 B deciding which values we want AI to share with us
 C creating a better world for all creatures on the planet
 D ensuring AI is more human-friendly than we are ourselves
18 What does the writer suggest about the future of AI in the fifth paragraph?

 A The safety of machines will become a key issue.
 B It is hard to know what impact machines will have on the world.
 C Machines will be superior to humans in certain respects.
 D Many humans will oppose machines having a wider role.
19 Which of the following best summarises the writer’s argument in the sixth paragraph?

 A More intelligent machines will result in greater abuses of power.
 B Machine learning will share very few features with human learning.
 C There are a limited number of people with the knowledge to program machines.
 D Human shortcomings will make creating the machines we need more difficult.
Questions 20-23
Do the following statements agree with the claims of the writer in Reading Passage 2?
In boxes 20-23 on your answer sheet, write
YES               if the statement agrees with the claims of the writer
NO                if the statement contradicts the claims of the writer
NOT GIVEN  if it is impossible to say what the writer thinks about this
20   Machines with the ability to make moral decisions may prevent us from promoting the interests of our communities.


 YES  NO  NG
21 Silicon police would need to exist in large numbers in order to be effective.

 YES  NO  NG
22 Many people are comfortable with the prospect of their independence being restricted by machines.

 YES  NO  NG
23 If we want to ensure that machines act in our best interests, we all need to work together.

 YES  NO  NG
Questions 24-26
Complete the summary using the list of phrases, A-F, below.

Write the correct letter, A-F, in boxes 24-26 on your answer sheet.

Using AI in the UK health system
AI currently has a limited role in the way 24
 are allocated in the health service. The positive aspect of AI having a bigger role is that it would be more efficient and lead to patient benefits. However, such a change would result, for example, in certain 25
 not having their current level of 26
. It is therefore important that AI goals are appropriate so that discriminatory practices could be avoided.

A. medical practitioners, B. specialised tasks, C. available resources, D. reduced illness, E. professional authority, F. technology experts

READING PASSAGE 3
Questions 27-33

Do the following statements agree with the information given in Reading Passage 3?

In boxes 27-33 on your answer sheet, write

TRUE              if the statement agrees with the information

FALSE             if the statement contradicts the information

NOT GIVEN    if there is no information on this

27 People first referred to Leonardo da Vinci as a genius 500 years ago.


 TRUE  FALSE  NG
28 The current climate crisis is predicted to cause more deaths than the plague.

 TRUE  FALSE  NG
29 Some of the challenges we face today can be compared to those of earlier times.

 TRUE  FALSE  NG
30 Leonardo da Vinci’s ‘ideal city’ was constructed in the 15th century.

 TRUE  FALSE  NG
31 Poor town planning is a major contributor to climate change.

 TRUE  FALSE  NG
32 In Renaissance times, local people fought against the changes to Pienza and Ferrara.

 TRUE  FALSE  NG
33 Leonardo da Vinci kept a neat, organised record of his designs.

 TRUE  FALSE  NG
Questions 34-40
Complete the summary below.

Choose ONE WORD ONLY from the passage for each answer.

Write your answers in boxes 34-40 on your answer sheet.

Leonardo da Vinci’s ideal city
A collection of Leonardo da Vinci’s paperwork reveals his design of a new city beside the Ticino River. This was to provide better 34
 for trade and a less polluted environment. Although Leonardo da Vinci’s city shared many of the ideals of his time, some of his innovations were considered unconventional in their design. They included features that can be seen in some tower blocks today, such as 35
 on the exterior of a building.

Leonardo da Vinci wasn’t only an architect. His expertise in 36
 was evident in his plans for artificial canals within his ideal city. He also believed that the height of houses should relate to the width of streets in case earthquakes occurred. The design of many cities in Italy today follows this 37
 .

While some cities from 38
 times have aspects that can also be found in Leonardo’s designs, his ideas weren’t put into practice until long after his  death. 39
 is one example of a city that was redesigned in the 19th century in the way that Leonardo had envisaged. His ideas are also relevant to today’s world, where building 40
 no longer seems to be the best approach.