PART 1 : Questions 1–10
Complete the notes below.

Write ONE WORD AND/OR A NUMBER for each answer.

Holiday rental

Owner’s names: Jack Fitzgerald and Shirley Fitzgerald

Granary Cottage

– available for week beginning 1. 
 May

– cost for the week: 2. £ 
.

3. 
 Cottage

– cost for the week: £480

– building was originally a 4. 

– walk through doors from living room into a 5. 

– several 6. 
 spaces at the front

– bathroom has a shower

– central heating and stove that burns 7. 

– views of old 8. 
 from living room

– view of hilltop 9. 
 from the bedroom

Payment

– deposit: £144

– deadline for final payment: end of 10. 

PART 2 : Questions 11–20
Questions 11-14

Choose the correct letter, A, B or C.

Local council report on traffic and highways

11. A survey found people’s main concern about traffic in the area was


 A. cuts to public transport.
 B. poor maintenance of roads.
 C. changes in the type of traffic.
12. Which change will shortly be made to the cycle path next to the river?


 A. It will be widened.
 B. It will be extended.
 C. It will be resurfaced.
13. Plans for a pedestrian crossing have been postponed because


 A. the Post Office has moved.
 B. the proposed location is unsafe.
 C. funding is not available at present.
14. On Station Road, notices have been erected


 A. telling cyclists not to leave their bikes outside the station ticket office.
 B. a sking motorists to switch off engines when waiting at the level crossing.
 C. warning pedestrians to leave enough time when crossing the railway line.
Questions 15-20
Label the map below.

Write the correct letter, A-I, next to Questions 15-20.

Recreation ground after proposed changes



15. New car park 

18. Skateboard ramp 

16. New cricket pitch 

19. Pavilion 

17. Children’s playground 

20. Notice board 

PART 3 : Questions 21-30
Questions 21-22

Choose TWO letters, A-E.

Which TWO benefits of city bike-sharing schemes do the students agree are the most important?


 A reducing noise pollution
 B. reducing traffic congestion.
 C. improving air quality
 D. encouraging health and fitness
 E. making cycling affordable
Questions 23-24
Choose TWO letters, A-E.

Which TWO things do the students think are necessary for successful bike-sharing schemes?


 A. Bikes should have a GPS system.
 B. The app should be easy to use.
 C. Public awareness should be raised.
 D. Only one scheme should be available.
 E. There should be a large network of cycle lanes.
Questions 25-30
What is the speakers’ opinion of the bike-sharing schemes in each of the following cities?

Choose SIX answers from the box and write the correct letter, A-G, next to Questions 25-30.

Opinion of bike-sharing scheme

A.   They agree it has been disappointing.

B.   They think it should be cheaper.

C.   They are surprised it has been so successful.

D.   They agree that more investment is required.

E.   They think the system has been well designed.

F.   They disagree about the reasons for its success.

G.   They think it has expanded too quickly.

Cities

25. Amsterdam 

28. Buenos Aires 

26. Dublin 

29. New York 

27. London 

30. Sydney

PART 4 : Questions 31–40
Complete the notes below.

Write ONE WORD ONLY for each answer.

THE EXTINCTION OF THE DODO BIRD

The dodo was a large flightless bird which used to inhabit the island of Mauritius.

History
– 1507 – Portuguese ships transporting 31. 
 stopped at the island to collect food and water.

– 1638 – The Dutch established a 32. 
 on the island.

– They killed the dodo birds for their meat.

– The last one was killed in 1681.

Description

– The only record we have is written descriptions and pictures (possibly unreliable).

– A Dutch painting suggests the dodo was very 33. 

– The only remaining soft tissue is a dried 34. 

– Recent studies of a dodo skeleton suggest the birds were capable of rapid 35. 

– It’s thought they were able to use their small wings to maintain 36. 

– Their 37. 
 was of average size.

– Their sense of 38. 
 enabled them to find food.

Reasons for extinction

– Hunting was probably not the main cause.

– Sailors brought dogs and monkeys.

– 39. 
 also escaped onto the island and ate the birds’ eggs.

– The arrival of farming meant the 40. 
 was destroyed.